[Docs] Translate data_element.md (#1067)
open-mmlab/mmengine: docs/en/advanced_tutorials/data_element.md

img_id in data_element1 is True
bboxes is not in data_element2 True
img_id in data_element2 is same as img_id in data_element True
label in data_element2 is True
```

### 3. Add and query attributes

For adding `data` attributes, users can add them as adding class attributes inside `data`. However, for `metainfo`, users should use `set_metainfo` interface to explicitly modify the information if it is needed since usually `metainfo` contains the metadata of the images and will not be modify in most scenarios.

For querying, users can access keys that exists only in `data` via `keys`, `values`, and `items`. You can also use `metainfo_keys`, `metainfo_values`, and `metainfo_items` to access those only exists in `metainfo`.

Moreover, for the ease of use, users can access `data` and `metainfo` as if they were working with class properties, or through the `get()` interface as class dictionaries.

**Note:**

1. `BaseDataElement` does not support fields with the same name in `metainfo` and `data` attributes, which makes users should avoid setting the same fields which already existed. Otherwise `BaseDataElement` will throw out an error.

> 2. Considering the `InstanceData` and `PixelData` support data slicing, and to avoid the inconsistent use of `[]` and to reduce different methods for the same requirement, `BaseDataElement` does not support accessing and setting its properties like a dictionary. Therefore, you cannot use operations like `BaseDataElement[name]`.

Author: > Refine this description

How about changing this part to:

1. `BaseDataElement` does not allow users to have fields using the same names in both `metainfo` and `data`. Otherwise, it will throw out an error.
2. Considering that both `InstanceData` and `PixelData` support slicing operation, to avoid inconsistency in the use of `[]` and to reduce different methods for the same needs, `BaseDataElement` does not allow accessing and setting values like a dictionary. Therefore, operations like `BaseDataElement[ name]` are not supported.

> 2. Considering the `InstanceData` and `PixelData` support data slicing, and to avoid the inconsistent use of `[]` and to reduce different methods for the same requirement, `BaseDataElement` does not support accessing and setting its properties like a dictionary. Therefore, you cannot use operations like `BaseDataElement[name]`.

Reviewer: I think this presentation `and to reduce different methods for the same needs, BaseDataElement ` is not necessary, both for Chinese docs.

> 2. Considering the `InstanceData` and `PixelData` support data slicing, and to avoid the inconsistent use of `[]` and to reduce different methods for the same requirement, `BaseDataElement` does not support accessing and setting its properties like a dictionary. Therefore, you cannot use operations like `BaseDataElement[name]`.

Reviewer: I think you can directly remove the second description. It somehow conflicts with the current implementation

> 2. Considering the `InstanceData` and `PixelData` support data slicing, and to avoid the inconsistent use of `[]` and to reduce different methods for the same requirement, `BaseDataElement` does not support accessing and setting its properties like a dictionary. Therefore, you cannot use operations like `BaseDataElement[name]`.

Author: > I think this presentation `and to reduce different methods for the same needs, BaseDataElement ` is not necessary, both for Chinese docs.

Agreed.

Then, how about:

1. `BaseDataElement` does not allow users to use the same name to set fields in `metainfo` and `data`. Otherwise, it will throw out an error.
1. Considering that both `InstanceData` and `PixelData` support the slicing operation and to avoid inconsistency in the use of `[]`, `BaseDataElement` does not allow accessing and setting values like a dictionary.

cpu_element_1 is on the device of cpu
cpu_element_2 is on the device of cpu
The type of bboxes in fp16_instances is torch.float16
The data in cuda_element_3 requires grad:  False
The type of cpu_element_1 is convert to <class 'numpy.ndarray'>
```

### 6. Show properties

`BaseDataElement` also implements `__repr__` which allows users to get all the data information through `print`. Meanwhile, to facilitate debugging, all properties in `BaseDataElement` are added to `__dict__`. Users can visualize the contents directly in their IDEs. A complete property display is as follow:

```python
img_meta = dict(img_shape=(800, 1196, 3), pad_shape=(800, 1216, 3))
instance_data = BaseDataElement(metainfo=img_meta)
instance_data.det_labels = torch.LongTensor([0, 1, 2, 3])
instance_data.det_scores = torch.Tensor([0.01, 0.1, 0.2, 0.3])
print(instance_data)
```

```
<BaseDataElement(

    META INFORMATION
    pad_shape: (800, 1216, 3)
    img_shape: (800, 1196, 3)

    DATA FIELDS
    det_labels: tensor([0, 1, 2, 3])
    det_scores: tensor([0.0100, 0.1000, 0.2000, 0.3000])
) at 0x7f9f339f85b0>
```

## xxxData

MMEngine divides the data elements into three categories:

> - InstanceData: mainly for high-level tasks that encapsulated all instance related data in the image, such as bounding boxes, labels, instance masks, key points, polygons, and tracking ids, etc. All instance related data has the same **length**, which is the number of instances in the image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- InstanceData: mainly for high-level tasks that encapsulated all instance-related data in the image, such as bounding boxes, labels, instance masks, key points, polygons, tracking ids, etc. All instance-related data has the same **length**, which is the number of instances in the image.
```

- LabelData: mainly for encapsulating label level data such as image classification, categories in multi-categorization, category content of the generated images in image generation, or texts in text recoginition.

### InstanceData

[`InstanceData`](mmengine.structures.InstanceData) builds on `BaseDataElement` and places restrictions on the data stored in `data`. It requires the data stored in `data` to have the same length. So, for example, in object detection tasks, suppose there are N targets (instances) in an image. Users can store all the bboxes and labels in `InstanceData`, and the lengths of the bboxes and labels are same.

MMEngine extended `InstanceData` based on the above assumption, including:

- length checking of the data store in `InstanceData`
- supports dictionary-like access and setting of its properties
- supports basic indexing, slicing and other advanced querying features

> - supports concatenation of data with the **same `key`** but different `InstanceData`

Author: > The description in Chinese docs is not fluent, please refine the Chinese docs and then translate it into English.

I refined the translation, plz check the latest commit.

                [0.4679, 0.7934, 0.5372, 0.4655]])
) at 0x7fa061b5d2b0>
```

```python
# advanced indexing
print(instance_data[instance_data.det_scores > 0.75])
```

```
<InstanceData(

    META INFORMATION
    pad_shape: (800, 1216, 3)
    img_shape: (800, 1196, 3)

    DATA FIELDS
    bboxes: tensor([[0.4207, 0.0778, 0.9959, 0.1967]])
    det_labels: tensor([2])
    det_scores: tensor([0.8000])
    polygons: [[1, 2, 3, 4]]
) at 0x7f9f312716d0>
```

```python
# cat
print(InstanceData.cat([instance_data, instance_data]))
```

```
<InstanceData(

    META INFORMATION
    pad_shape: (800, 1216, 3)
    img_shape: (800, 1196, 3)

    DATA FIELDS
    bboxes: tensor([[0.4207, 0.0778, 0.9959, 0.1967],
                [0.4679, 0.7934, 0.5372, 0.4655],
                [0.4207, 0.0778, 0.9959, 0.1967],
                [0.4679, 0.7934, 0.5372, 0.4655]])
    det_labels: tensor([2, 3, 2, 3])
    det_scores: tensor([0.8000, 0.7000, 0.8000, 0.7000])
    polygons: [[1, 2, 3, 4], [5, 6, 7, 8], [1, 2, 3, 4], [5, 6, 7, 8]]
) at 0x7f9f31271490>
```

### PixelData

[`PixelData`](mmengine.structures.PixelData) builds on `BaseDataElement` which also has restrictions on the stored data.

> - All data must be in three-dimension in the order of (Channel, Height, Width).

Reviewer: Conflicts with the description [here](https://github.com/open-mmlab/mmengine/pull/1067/files#diff-f82d5149d3224e872d55307e9b68092e5526421d2c82c4e6cfdf793ad4c94235R378)

Please check whether the data must be three-dimension

Author: > Conflicts with the description [here](https://github.com/open-mmlab/mmengine/pull/1067/files#diff-f82d5149d3224e872d55307e9b68092e5526421d2c82c4e6cfdf793ad4c94235R378)
> 
> Please check whether the data must be three-dimension

`PixelData` is three-dimensional, and I believe the linked content is talking about the data that can be encapsulated with `PixelData`. So this should be fine.

```

```
The shape of pixel_data is (20, 40)
```

- Indexing

```python
index_data = pixel_data[10, 20]
print('The shape of index_data is: ', index_data.shape)
```

```
The shape of index_data is (1, 1)
```

- Slicing

```python
slice_data = pixel_data[10:20, 20:40]
print('The shape of slice_data is: ', slice_data.shape)
```

```
The shape of slice_data is (10, 20)
```

### LabelData

[`LabelData`](mmengine.structures.LabelData) is mainly used to encapsulate label data such as classiciation labels, predicted text labels, etc. `LabelData` has no limitations to `data`, and it provides two extra features: `onehot` transformation and `index` transformation.

```python
from mmengine.structures import LabelData
import torch

item = torch.tensor([1], dtype=torch.int64)
num_classes = 10

```

```python
onehot = LabelData.label_to_onehot(label=item, num_classes=num_classes)
print(f'{num_classes} is convert to ', onehot)

index = LabelData.onehot_to_label(onehot=onehot)
print(f'{onehot} is convert to ', index)
```

```
10 is convert to  tensor([0, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0])
tensor([0, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0]) is convert to tensor([1])
```

## DataSample

> As the outermost interface of different modules, `DataSample` provides `xxxDataSample` for passing a uniform format between modules in a single task. Meanwhile, for each module to obtain or write information from a uniform field, the naming and type in the `DataSample` should be constrained and unified to ensure the uniformity of the interface of each module. The naming convention of the OpenMMLab can be found at [`The naming convention in OpenMMLab`](TODO).

Reviewer: Suggest translating the content based on this description:

"""
一份样本中可能存在不同类型的标签，例如一张图片里可能同时存在实例级别的标签（Box），像素系别的标签（SegMap），因此在 PixelData、InstanceData、PixelData 之上，还会有一层更加高级封装，用来表示图像级别的标签。OpenMMLab 系列项目将这层封装命名为 XXDataSample。以检测任务为例，MMDet 就实现了 DetDataSample。训练过程中所有的标签都会被封装在 XXXDataSample 中，这样能够保证不同的深度学习任务能够保持统一的数据流和统一的数据操作方式。
"""

Please feel free to refine the representation if the content does not make sense to you (update the Chinese docs at the same time).

Author: > Suggest translating the content based on this description:
> 
> """ 一份样本中可能存在不同类型的标签，例如一张图片里可能同时存在实例级别的标签（Box），像素系别的标签（SegMap），因此在 PixelData、InstanceData、PixelData 之上，还会有一层更加高级封装，用来表示图像级别的标签。OpenMMLab 系列项目将这层封装命名为 XXDataSample。以检测任务为例，MMDet 就实现了 DetDataSample。训练过程中所有的标签都会被封装在 XXXDataSample 中，这样能够保证不同的深度学习任务能够保持统一的数据流和统一的数据操作方式。 """
> 
> Please feel free to refine the representation if the content does not make sense to you (update the Chinese docs at the same time).

switched the original content to this in both the Chinese and the translated versions. Plz take a look.

### Downstream library usage

We take MMDet as an example to illustrate the use of the `DataSample` in downstream libraries and its constraints and naming styles. MMDet defined `DetDataSample` and seven fields, which are:

- Annotation Information
  - gt_instance(InstanceData): Instance annotation information includes the instance class, bounding box, etc. The type constraint is `InstanceData`.

>   - gt_panoptic_seg(PixelData): Panoptic segmentation annotation information. The type constraint is `PixelData`.

Reviewer: Refine these description like this:

```suggestion
  - gt_panoptic_seg(PixelData): For panoptic segmentation annotation information, the required type is PixelData.
```

```
cuda_element_1 is on the device of cuda:0
cuda_element_1 is on the device of cuda:0
cpu_element_1 is on the device of cpu
cpu_element_2 is on the device of cpu
The type of bboxes in fp16_instances is torch.float16
The data in cuda_element_3 requires grad:  False
The type of cpu_element_1 is convert to <class 'numpy.ndarray'>
```

### 6. Show properties

`BaseDataElement` also implements `__repr__` which allows users to get all the data information through `print`. Meanwhile, to facilitate debugging, all properties in `BaseDataElement` are added to `__dict__`. Users can visualize the contents directly in their IDEs. A complete property display is as follow:

```python
img_meta = dict(img_shape=(800, 1196, 3), pad_shape=(800, 1216, 3))
instance_data = BaseDataElement(metainfo=img_meta)
instance_data.det_labels = torch.LongTensor([0, 1, 2, 3])
instance_data.det_scores = torch.Tensor([0.01, 0.1, 0.2, 0.3])
print(instance_data)
```

```
<BaseDataElement(

    META INFORMATION
    pad_shape: (800, 1216, 3)
    img_shape: (800, 1196, 3)

    DATA FIELDS
    det_labels: tensor([0, 1, 2, 3])
    det_scores: tensor([0.0100, 0.1000, 0.2000, 0.3000])
) at 0x7f9f339f85b0>
```

## xxxData

> MMEngine divides the data elements into three categories:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
MMEngine categorizes the data elements into three categories:
```

- InstanceData: mainly for high-level tasks that encapsulated all instance-related data in the image, such as bounding boxes, labels, instance masks, key points, polygons, tracking ids, etc. All instance-related data has the same **length**, which is the number of instances in the image.

> - PixelData: mainly for low-level tasks and some high-level tasks that need perception pixel-level labels. `PixelData` encapsulates pixel-level data such as segmentation map for semantic segmentations, flow map for optical flow tasks, panoptic seg map for panoramic segmentions, and various images generated by the bottom-level tasks like super-resolution maps, denoising maps, and other various style maps generated. These data are characterized as three-dimensional or four-dimensional arrays, with the last two dimentsions being the height and width of the data. The height and the width are same.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- PixelData: mainly for low-level tasks and some high-level tasks that require pixel-level labels. It encapsulates pixel-level data such as segmentation map for semantic segmentations, flow map for optical flow tasks, panoptic segmentation map for panoramic segmentations, and various images generated by bottom-level tasks like super-resolution maps, denoising maps, and other various style maps generated. These data typically have three or four dimensions, with the last two dimensions representing the height and width of the data, which are consistent across the dataset.
```

> - LabelData: mainly for encapsulating label level data such as image classification, categories in multi-categorization, category content of the generated images in image generation, or texts in text recoginition.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- LabelData: mainly for encapsulating label-level data, such as class labels in image classification or multi-class classification, content categories for generated images in image generation, text in text recognition tasks, and more.
```

### InstanceData

> [`InstanceData`](mmengine.structures.InstanceData) builds on top of the `BaseDataElement` and restricts the stored data to have the same length.
> 
> For example, in object detection tasks, suppose there are N instances in one image. All the bboxes and labels of the image can be stored in `InstanceData`, and the bboxes and labels of `InstanceData` have the same length.
> 
> In this way, MMEngine added the following features to `InstanceData`:
> 
> - supports length checking of the data store in `InstanceData`
> - supports dictionary-like accessing and editing
> - supports basic indexing, slicing and other advanced querying features
> - supports concatenation of data with the **same `key`** but from different `InstanceData`
> 
> These extended functions support both basic data structures such as `torch.tensor`, `numpy.dnarray`, `list`, `str` and `tuple`, and customized data structures, as long as they have implemented the `__len__`, `__getitem__` and `cat` fields.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[`InstanceData`](mmengine.structures.InstanceData) builds upon `BaseDataElement` and introduces restrictions on the data stored in `data`, requiring that the length of the data is consistent. For example, in object detection, assuming an image has N objects (instances), you can store all the bounding boxes and labels in InstanceData, where the lengths of bounding boxes and label in InstanceData are the same. Based on this assumption, InstanceData is extended to include the following features:

- length validation of the data stored in InstanceData's data.
- support for dictionary-like access and assignment of attributes in the `data`.
- support for basic indexing, slicing, and advanced indexing capabilities.
- support for concatenation of InstanceData with the same keys but different instances. 

These extended features support basic data structures such as `torch.tensor`, `numpy.ndarray`, list, str, and tuple, as well as custom data structures, as long as the custom data structure implements `__len__`, `__getitem__`, and `cat` methods.
```

) at 0x7f9f312b4610>
```

2. Slicing

```python
print(instance_data[0:1])
```

```
<InstanceData(

    META INFORMATION
    pad_shape: (800, 1216, 3)
    img_shape: (800, 1196, 3)

    DATA FIELDS
    det_labels: tensor([2])
    det_scores: tensor([0.8000])
    bboxes: tensor([[0.1872, 0.1669, 0.7563, 0.8777]])
) at 0x7f9f312b4e20>
```

3. Advanced indexing

- list indexing

```python
sorted_results = instance_data[instance_data.det_scores.sort().indices]
print(sorted_results)
```

```
<InstanceData(

    META INFORMATION
    pad_shape: (800, 1216, 3)
    img_shape: (800, 1196, 3)

    DATA FIELDS
    det_labels: tensor([3, 2])
    det_scores: tensor([0.7000, 0.8000])
    bboxes: tensor([[0.3421, 0.7104, 0.6000, 0.1518],
                [0.1872, 0.1669, 0.7563, 0.8777]])
) at 0x7f9f312b4a90>
```

- bool indexing

```python
filter_results = instance_data[instance_data.det_scores > 0.75]
print(filter_results)
```

```
<InstanceData(

    META INFORMATION
    pad_shape: (800, 1216, 3)
    img_shape: (800, 1196, 3)

    DATA FIELDS
    det_labels: tensor([2])
    det_scores: tensor([0.8000])
    bboxes: tensor([[0.1872, 0.1669, 0.7563, 0.8777]])
) at 0x7fa061299dc0>
```

> 4. None result

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. result is empty
```

    polygons: [[1, 2, 3, 4], [5, 6, 7, 8]]
    det_scores: tensor([0.8000, 0.7000])
    bboxes: tensor([[0.4207, 0.0778, 0.9959, 0.1967],
                [0.4679, 0.7934, 0.5372, 0.4655]])
) at 0x7fa061b5d2b0>
```

```python
# advanced indexing
print(instance_data[instance_data.det_scores > 0.75])
```

```
<InstanceData(

    META INFORMATION
    pad_shape: (800, 1216, 3)
    img_shape: (800, 1196, 3)

    DATA FIELDS
    bboxes: tensor([[0.4207, 0.0778, 0.9959, 0.1967]])
    det_labels: tensor([2])
    det_scores: tensor([0.8000])
    polygons: [[1, 2, 3, 4]]
) at 0x7f9f312716d0>
```

```python
# cat
print(InstanceData.cat([instance_data, instance_data]))
```

```
<InstanceData(

    META INFORMATION
    pad_shape: (800, 1216, 3)
    img_shape: (800, 1196, 3)

    DATA FIELDS
    bboxes: tensor([[0.4207, 0.0778, 0.9959, 0.1967],
                [0.4679, 0.7934, 0.5372, 0.4655],
                [0.4207, 0.0778, 0.9959, 0.1967],
                [0.4679, 0.7934, 0.5372, 0.4655]])
    det_labels: tensor([2, 3, 2, 3])
    det_scores: tensor([0.8000, 0.7000, 0.8000, 0.7000])
    polygons: [[1, 2, 3, 4], [5, 6, 7, 8], [1, 2, 3, 4], [5, 6, 7, 8]]
) at 0x7f9f31271490>
```

### PixelData

> [`PixelData`](mmengine.structures.PixelData) builds on `BaseDataElement` which also has restrictions on the stored data.
> 
> - All data must be in three-dimension in the order of (Channel, Height, Width).
> - All data must have the same length and width.
> 
> MMEngine extends the `PixelData` according to these assumptions, including:
> 
> - Dimension checking on data stored
> - Supports indexing and slicing the data in spatial dimension

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[`PixelData`](mmengine.structures.PixelData) upon `BaseDataElement` and imposes restrictions on the stored `data`:

- All data must be three-dimension in the order of (Channel, Height, and Width).
- All data must have the same length and width.

MMEngine extends the `PixelData` according to these assumptions, including:

- Dimension validation on data stored
- Support indexing and slicing the data in spatial dimension
```

import torch
import numpy as np
metainfo = dict(
    img_id=random.randint(0, 100),
    img_shape=(random.randint(400, 600), random.randint(400, 600)))
image = np.random.randint(0, 255, (4, 20, 40))
featmap = torch.randint(0, 255, (10, 20, 40))
pixel_data = PixelData(metainfo=metainfo,
                       image=image,
                       featmap=featmap)
print('The shape of pixel_data is', pixel_data.shape)
# set
pixel_data.map3 = torch.randint(0, 255, (20, 40))
print('The shape of pixel_data is', pixel_data.map3.shape)
```

```
The shape of pixel_data is (20, 40)
The shape of pixel_data is torch.Size([1, 20, 40])
```

```python
pixel_data.map2 = torch.randint(0, 255, (3, 20, 30))
# AssertionError: the height and width of values (20, 30) is not consistent with the length of this :obj:`PixelData` (20, 40)
```

```
AssertionError: the height and width of values (20, 30) is not consistent with the length of this :obj:`PixelData` (20, 40)
```

```python
pixel_data.map2 = torch.randint(0, 255, (1, 3, 20, 40))
# AssertionError: The dim of value must be 2 or 3, but got 4
```

```
AssertionError: The dim of value must be 2 or 3, but got 4
```

#### Querying in spatial dimension

> `PixelData` supports indexing and slicing in spatial dimension on part of the data instances. Users only need to pass in the index of the length and width.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`PixelData` supports indexing and slicing in spatial dimension on part of the data instances. Users only need to pass in the index of the length and width.
```

```

```
The shape of pixel_data is (20, 40)
```

- Indexing

```python
index_data = pixel_data[10, 20]
print('The shape of index_data is: ', index_data.shape)
```

```
The shape of index_data is (1, 1)
```

- Slicing

```python
slice_data = pixel_data[10:20, 20:40]
print('The shape of slice_data is: ', slice_data.shape)
```

```
The shape of slice_data is (10, 20)
```

### LabelData

[`LabelData`](mmengine.structures.LabelData) is mainly used to encapsulate label data such as classiciation labels, predicted text labels, etc. `LabelData` has no limitations to `data`, and it provides two extra features: `onehot` transformation and `index` transformation.

```python
from mmengine.structures import LabelData
import torch

item = torch.tensor([1], dtype=torch.int64)
num_classes = 10

```

```python
onehot = LabelData.label_to_onehot(label=item, num_classes=num_classes)
print(f'{num_classes} is convert to ', onehot)

index = LabelData.onehot_to_label(onehot=onehot)
print(f'{onehot} is convert to ', index)
```

```
10 is convert to  tensor([0, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0])
tensor([0, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0]) is convert to tensor([1])
```

## xxxDataSample

> There may be different types of labels in one sample, for example, there may be both instance-level labels (Box) and pixel-level labels (SegMap) in one image. Therefore, we need to have a higher-level encapsulation on top of PixelData, InstanceData, and PixelData to represent the image-level labels. This layer is named as `XXXDataSample` across the OpenMMLab series algorithms. In MMDet we have DetDataSample. All the labels are encapsulated in `XXXDataSample` during the training process, so different deep learning tasks can maintain a uniform data flow and data processing method.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There may be different types of labels in one sample, for example, there may be both instance-level labels (Box) and pixel-level labels (SegMap) in one image. Therefore, we need to have a higher-level encapsulation on top of PixelData, InstanceData, and PixelData to represent the image-level labels. This layer is named `XXXDataSample` across the OpenMMLab series algorithms. In MMDet we have `DetDataSample`. All the labels are encapsulated in `XXXDataSample` during the training process, so different deep learning tasks can maintain a uniform data flow and data processing method.
```

### Downstream library usage

> We take MMDet as an example to illustrate the use of the `DataSample` in downstream libraries and its constraints and naming styles. MMDet defined `DetDataSample` and seven fields, which are:
> 
> - Annotation Information
>   - gt_instance(InstanceData): Instance annotation information includes the instance class, bounding box, etc. The type constraint is `InstanceData`.
>   - gt_panoptic_seg(PixelData): For panoptic segmentation annotation information, the required type is PixelData.
>   - gt_semantic_seg(PixelData): Semantic segmentation annotation information. The type constraint is `PixelData`.
> - Prediction Results
>   - pred_instance(InstanceData): Instance prediction results includes the instance class, bounding boxes, etc. The type constraint is `InstanceData`.
>   - pred_panoptic_seg(PixelData): Panoptic segmentation prediction results. The type constraint is `PixelData`.
>   - pred_semantic_seg(PixelData): Semantic segmentation prediction results. The type constraint is `PixelData`.
> - Intermediate Results
>   - proposal(InstanceData): Mostly used for the RPN results in the two-stage algorithms. The type constraint is `InstanceData`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We take MMDet as an example to illustrate the use of the `DataSample` in downstream libraries and its constraints and naming styles. MMDet defined `DetDataSample` and seven fields, which are:

- Annotation Information
  - gt_instance (InstanceData): Instance annotation information includes the instance class, bounding box, etc. The type constraint is `InstanceData`.
  - gt_panoptic_seg (PixelData): For panoptic segmentation annotation information, the required type is PixelData.
  - gt_semantic_seg (PixelData): Semantic segmentation annotation information. The type constraint is `PixelData`.
- Prediction Results
  - pred_instance (InstanceData): Instance prediction results include the instance class, bounding boxes, etc. The type constraint is `InstanceData`.
  - pred_panoptic_seg (PixelData): Panoptic segmentation prediction results. The type constraint is `PixelData`.
  - pred_semantic_seg (PixelData): Semantic segmentation prediction results. The type constraint is `PixelData`.
- Intermediate Results
  - proposal (InstanceData): Mostly used for the RPN results in the two-stage algorithms. The type constraint is `InstanceData`.
```

```python
data_sample = DetDataSample()

data_sample.proposals = InstanceData(data=dict(bboxes=torch.rand((5,4))))
print(data_sample)
```

```
<DetDataSample(

    META INFORMATION

    DATA FIELDS
    proposals: <InstanceData(

            META INFORMATION

            DATA FIELDS
            data:
                bboxes: tensor([[0.7513, 0.9275, 0.6169, 0.5581],
                            [0.6019, 0.6861, 0.7915, 0.0221],
                            [0.5977, 0.8987, 0.9541, 0.7877],
                            [0.0309, 0.1680, 0.1374, 0.0556],
                            [0.3842, 0.9965, 0.0747, 0.6546]])
        ) at 0x7f9f1c090310>
) at 0x7f9f1c090430>
```

```python
data_sample.proposals = torch.rand((5, 4))
```

```
AssertionError: tensor([[0.4370, 0.1661, 0.0902, 0.8421],
        [0.4947, 0.1668, 0.0083, 0.1111],
        [0.2041, 0.8663, 0.0563, 0.3279],
        [0.7817, 0.1938, 0.2499, 0.6748],
        [0.4524, 0.8265, 0.4262, 0.2215]]) should be a <class 'mmengine.data.instance_data.InstanceData'> but got <class 'torch.Tensor'>
```

## Simpify the interfaces

> In this section we use MMDetection to demonstrate how to migrate the abstract data interfaces to simplify the module and component interfaces. We suppose both `DetDataSample` and `InstanceData` have been implemented in MMDetection and MMEngine.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this section, we use MMDetection to demonstrate how to migrate the abstract data interfaces to simplify the module and component interfaces. We suppose both `DetDataSample` and `InstanceData` have been implemented in MMDetection and MMEngine.
```

### 1. Simplify the module interface

> Detector's external interfaces can been significantly simplified and unified. In the training process of a single-stage detection and segmentation algorithm in MMDet 2.X, `SingleStageDetector` requires `img`， `img_metas`， `gt_bboxes`， `gt_labels`， `gt_bboxes_ignore` as the inputs, but `SingleStageInstanceSegmentor` requires `gt_masks` as well. This causes the inconsistency in the training interface and affects the flexibility.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Detector's external interfaces can be significantly simplified and unified. In the training process of a single-stage detection and segmentation algorithm in MMDet 2.X, `SingleStageDetector` requires `img`, `img_metas`, `gt_bboxes`， `gt_labels` and `gt_bboxes_ignore` as the inputs, but `SingleStageInstanceSegmentor` requires `gt_masks` as well. This causes inconsistency in the training interface and affects flexibility.
```

```python
class SingleStageDetector(BaseDetector):
    ...

    def forward_train(self,
                      img,
                      img_metas,
                      gt_bboxes,
                      gt_labels,
                      gt_bboxes_ignore=None):

class SingleStageInstanceSegmentor(BaseDetector):
    ...

    def forward_train(self,
                      img,
                      img_metas,
                      gt_masks,
                      gt_labels,
                      gt_bboxes=None,
                      gt_bboxes_ignore=None,
                      **kwargs):
```

> In MMDet 3.X, the training interfaces of the all the detectors can be unified as `img` and `data_samples` using `DetDataSample`. Different modules can use `data_samples` to encapsule their own attributes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In MMDet 3.X, the training interfaces of all the detectors can be unified as `img` and `data_samples` using `DetDataSample`. Different modules can use `data_samples` to encapsulate their own attributes.
```

```python
class SingleStageDetector(BaseDetector):
    ...

    def forward_train(self,
                      img,
                      data_samples):

class SingleStageInstanceSegmentor(BaseDetector):
    ...

    def forward_train(self,
                      img,
                      data_samples):

```

### 2. Simplify the model interfaces

> In MMDet 2.X, `HungarianAssigner` and `MaskHungarianAssigner` will be used to assign bboxes and instance segment information with annotated instances, respectively. The assignment logics of these two moduls are the same, and the only differences are the interface and the calculation of the loss functions. However, this difference make the code of `HungarianAssigner` cannot be directly used in `MaskHungarianAssigner`, which caused the redundancy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In MMDet 2.X, `HungarianAssigner` and `MaskHungarianAssigner` will be used to assign bboxes and instance segment information with annotated instances, respectively. The assignment logics of these two modules are the same, and the only differences are the interface and the calculation of the loss functions. However, this difference makes the code of `HungarianAssigner` cannot be directly used in `MaskHungarianAssigner`, which caused the redundancy.
```

```python
class HungarianAssigner(BaseAssigner):

    def assign(self,
               bbox_pred,
               cls_pred,
               gt_bboxes,
               gt_labels,
               img_meta,
               gt_bboxes_ignore=None,
               eps=1e-7):

class MaskHungarianAssigner(BaseAssigner):

    def assign(self,
               cls_pred,
               mask_pred,
               gt_labels,
               gt_mask,
               img_meta,
               gt_bboxes_ignore=None,
               eps=1e-7):
```

> In MMDet 3.X, `InstanceData` can encapsule the bounding boxes, scores, and the masks. With which we can simplify the core parameters of `HungarianAssigner` to `pred_instances`, `gt_instances`, and `gt_instances_ignore`. This unifies the two assigner into one `HungarianAssianger`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In MMDet 3.X, `InstanceData` can encapsulate the bounding boxes, scores, and masks. With this, we can simplify the core parameters of `HungarianAssigner` to `pred_instances`, `gt_instances`, and `gt_instances_ignore`. This unifies the two assigners into one `HungarianAssianger`.
```
